This is the Linnaeus punnett square help documentation.

Interactive Mode Information:
	The punnett square maker cannot be run in Canopy's interactive mode. 
	Select Edit > Preferences... in the Canopy window, and under the Python tab, select Inline (SVG) from the Pylab backend dropdown.
    
Square Size Information:
	(1) A 2x2 square supports one trait with two alleles.
	(2) A 4x4 square supports two traits, each with two alleles.
	(3) An 8x8 square supports three traits, each with two alleles.
	(4) A 16x16 square supports three traits, each with two alleles.

Modes of Inheritance Information:
	If you select a 2x2 square, you may choose one out of four modes of inheritance:

	(aut) Autosomal is the default mode of inheritance. Two alleles exist for each trait, one dominant and one recessive. 
	The dominant allele is represented by a capital letter (ex. 'A')
	The recessive allele is represented by a lowercase letter (ex. 'a')
	The presence of the dominant allele will always lead to the dominant phenotype being expressed
	(ex. AA: dominant; Aa: dominant; aa: recessive)

	(inc) Incomplete dominance. If both the dominant and the recessive allele are present, an intermediate phenotype will be expressed.
	(ex. AA: dominant; Aa: intermediate; aa: recessive)

	(cod) Codominance. Alleles are represented as two different capital letters. If both alles are present, both phenotypes will be expressed.
	(ex. AA: first phenotype; AB: first and second phenotypes; BB: second phenotype)

	(xl) X-linked. The alleles for this trait are linked to the X sex chromosome.
	The dominant allele is represented by a capital X.
	The recessiveallele is represented by a lowercase x. 
	The mother may have a genotype of XX, Xx, or xx.
	The father may have a genotype of XY or xY.
	Standard phenotype expression applies for female offspring. For male offspring, the phenotype corresponds to the single X/x allele.
	(ex. XY: dominant; xY: recessive)

Allele Input Information:
	If you receive an error message, please re-enter the alleles for the parent genotypes. 
	Examples of acceptable genotype inputs are shown below (the letters you input may differ from those shown).

	2x2   | aut, inc|       Father: Aa        Mother: Aa
	      | cod |           Father: AB        Mother: BB
	      | xl |            Father: xY        Mother: Xx
		
	4x4   |                 Father: AaBB      Mother: AABb
	8x8   |                 Father: aaBbCC    Mother: AAbbCc
	16x16 |                 Father: AAbbCcDD  Mother: aaBBccDd

Punnett Square Information:
	The potential gamete genotypes of the father are displayed along the top of the square.
	The potential gamete genotypes of the mother are displayed along the left side.
	The cells in the square represent potential offspring genotypes generated by fusion of a father and a mother gamete. 
	Coloring of the cells reflects the offspring phenotype; cells with the same color share the same phenotype.

Probability Information:
	The probability table gives the likelihood of each offspring phenotype. 
	The mode of inheritance, number of traits, and sex of offspring (if x-linked) will be taken into account in calculating probabilities.

We hope this documentation has been informative! 


	

    